# CV - from Nicolas Haas

This project combines personal interest of the creator (Nicolas Haas) and public interests for people who want to create a quick CV in a web format. Because I often use my CV for different contexts, I was interested in the question whether a web application can give me a nicer layout of a simple CV (classic design - no exciting features). Hence, I looked for some user input features that were offered by some recruiting companies. Furthermore, for the layout of the CV itself I was inspired by one classic design in the internet.

With this main idea in mind, I used the python Flask library to connect a database over a web page with the user so that the user can dynamically adapt the CV by simply responding do different input requests. Additionally, I used a database set up that helped to store the information so that a user always has the possibility to go back to his CV and change it if there is a need. In general, the application allows the user to include his personal data, his professional profile, an image, a list of his professional experience, a list of his education and some skills. The layout then uses a left and right split to divide personal data from experience, education and skills. For both, creation and displaying of the CV, the user can get access in terms of a user password and a user name.

The general set up of my flask application is the following:

There is first a style sheet (CSS) which consists of different style functions for tables, containers, headers, etc. Nevertheless, I also used some style functions separately in some HTMLs, simply because I wanted to change it only ones. The second main file is the application.py file, which contains the main logical set up of the application (python code). It mainly goes over all routes and connects them. Finally, there are some html files, which sometimes have non-uniform names (for example "final2.html" and "third_final.html" which both require user input). The reason why I used different naming variations and also didn't change it at the end is simply explained by bad experiences in the past (GitHub could help to follow the steps but I didn't use it for this course).

To explain the application.py file a bit more in detail, it is important to know that the first lines (up to line 32) already use useful built-in functions that help to follow the user throughout his visit and connects his inputs to the SQL-database. The cursor at the end, allows python to work with SQL-commands which will directly be executed in the database itself. Then the user must log in (otherwise he can't get to the user input fields). He can either first register and then log-in or if already registered, he can use his password and username to directly get access. The python code requires that a user must confirm his password by registration. The interesting part starts at line 112, when the user provides user input. The "userinput" route contains of 4 big parts (4 post possibilities, therefore 1 "if" and three times "elif"). To explain this more generally, the main idea is that the user always can go back to his CV when he wants to and he can change different parts. For example, he/she followed a XXX course and wants to change his/her skills, then he/she can get to the skills section and tips it in once again. The application.py code then proves if the user is already registered. If not, then it inserts a new line in the database with the new user ID. If the user is already saved but gives new input, then it removes the old input and inserts the new one (only for the part "skills" in this example). This is the main idea of the coding from line 112-293. Then the "photo" route only asks the user to upload a photo. Python requests the uploaded photo and reads the raw data into the database and uses the same file name that the user provided. In lines 313-321 I used a trick to display the photo of the current user. I therefore created a new route (which the user himself never sees) which displays the image of the current user entirely. And the CV Layout then uses only the url of the image of the current user. This was the easiest way to display the image in the CV. Lines 323-336 asks the database to give the CV layout all the information of the current user (personal data, experience, education, skills, photo). Finally, there is the logout route to allow the user to log out.

When it comes to limitations, there are also some few points to improve the whole set up. First and Foremost, there are no specific security layers included in the app yet (only password encryption). The main reason for this is that the application is currently built for personal interests only. So, if one wants to use this on a professional base, there certainly has to be done something in that respect (authorization, encrytpion, 2FAuth, more validation tests, etc.). Second, the layout is very static. This means, it is my preferred layout (classic choice) but it would also be possible to include the user in this process. For example, does the user want to split the layout in two vertical parts or horizontally? Does the user want to change the font-family? Does the user want to choose a background-color?... Third, when it comes to printing the page, I could easily adapt the page by using my local printing features, but generally this is not the best option. There are still better options in the web to improve capabilities to change it more dynamically. Fourth, the layout of the entire application could be improved. I mostly spent my time on coding and running of the main application. It still seems to look very simple. Nevertheless, I think for someone who is in a hurry or not a computer friendly user, it could be a good set up to write in a few steps the own CV without losing too much time. 

    

   